I learned all about Claude Colleague for
you. You can use it to automate
workflows for you like plan your day,
triage and draft your emails for you,
even automatically do bookkeeping. But,
that is just scratching the surface. I
have it automating and building things
across my business and my personal life.
Like here's a dashboard that
automatically tracks my investments,
researches and suggest new
opportunities, and sends me a daily
digest with news that's relevant to my
investments, and suggestions that are
based upon my personal investing
philosophy. Not financial advice, okay?
But, I will show you how to build things
like this later in the video. And you
don't even need to know how to code.
Crazy, right? In this video, I'm going
to properly explain to you how Claude
Colleague works, and show you how to do
stuff all the way from automating some
simple workflows to building entire
ecosystems and softwares. Now, without
further ado, let's go. A portion of this
video is sponsored by Manas. Let's start
off with first defining Claude
Colleague. Claude Colleague belongs to a
currently very popular category of AI
products called local AI agents. And a
local AI agent is an AI that lives on
your actual computer that can
autonomously do things with your files,
your apps, and your tools. If you've
heard of or used Open Claude before, you
can think about Claude Colleague as
Anthropic's interpretation that is more
secure, built exclusively using the
Claude ecosystem, and targeted more
towards non-technical people. In
general, I think local AI agents are
such a cool category of AI product. Um
but, I'm not going to go into more
detail about it here. I actually made an
entire video about it if you want to
dive deeper into this, which you can
check out over here. But, for this
video, we're going to be more hands-on
and jump straight into Claude Colleague.
So, the first thing you got to do is go
to claude.com/products/colleague.
Then, you click download Claude and
install it on your computer. Yay, you
have now downloaded it, and this is
going to be your local hub. So, if you
click over here, you can see that
there's actually three tabs available.
This is chat, which is exactly the same
chatbot as on the web version at
claude.ai. You can also see that you
have all of your past threads that are
here as well. Then, there is Colleague.
Colleague is the local AI agent, which
we're going to be focusing on for this
video. And And also Claude Code, which
is the coding agent. By the way, Claude
Code and Claude Code is actually such an
OP combination as well, which I will
actually give you a little taste for
this at the end of the video. But let's
now focus on Claude Code. First thing
you want to do is to config some
settings. So, go to Claude
>> [sighs]
>> settings and go to capabilities. I
actually just have everything turned on,
uh but you can choose what you're
comfortable with. Just make sure under
visuals you have artifacts, AI power
artifacts, and inline visualizations
turned on. Then let's go to Claude Code
tab. I also have a dispatch turned on.
This will allow you Claude Code Code and
control stuff on your computer through
your phone, which is pretty cool. Then
under global instructions, these are
instructions that will apply to all
Claude Code sessions. So, for mine I
have a little bit information about who
I am, how to work with me, and then how
to build stuff and things I should never
do. You can write this yourself, but I'm
going to put a prompt on screen, also in
description, which you can just
copy-paste into chat, like here, and
then it will output it for you and you
can copy-paste it back into Claude Code
settings, if you like. Click save. Then
finally, Claude in a Chrome. So, I also
have this turned on, so it allows Claude
to go into Chrome and do stuff on Chrome
and visit sites. Pretty cool feature,
you can do it as well, if you like. All
right, let's now do stuff. So, go to
Claude Code. And let's start off with
some simple but useful little things
that you can do with Claude Code to ease
you into it. This is like level one.
>> [music]
>> We will point Claude Code into working
at a local folder. So, let's say choose
a different folder and we'll go with my
desktop here, which is very messy. I was
waiting to clean up with you guys. Click
open. Click always allow, so it can do
stuff in the folder. And we're going to
ask it, help me organize these files.
I'm going to go with Sonnet here, but
you can also choose other models that
you want. And then click proceed. And it
will lead you to this window. So, you
can actually see on the right that there
is a progress window. It also shows you
which folder it's operating under, which
is my desktop. It also has instructions
here, which you can give it more
instructions specific to working in this
folder, like maybe sometimes you want it
to be more witty, and sometimes you want
it to be more pushy, you know, depending
on what it whatever it is that you're
doing. I'm going to just leave it blank
here because, you know, we're just
organizing some folders here, not super
complex. And we also have contexts here,
which Co Work would be storing
information like what tools it's using
and any other types of memory that it's
loading up. Again, this is pretty clean
for now, but there will be more stuff in
here as you do more complex projects,
which I will show you later on. All
right, let's see. Here's what I'm
looking at on your desktop. You have 376
files total. Wow, blah blah blah. Okay,
a bunch of these things. Oh my goodness,
I just have an API key that's just
sitting exposed on my desktop.
How awful. So, it's telling me here's a
proposed structure that it wants to do.
Two questions, good to move the
screenshots into existing screenshots
folder merging everything there. What do
you want to do with the open ai.txt? I
strongly recommend deleting it or moving
it somewhere securely. Okay, that is a
great idea. Yes, let's go with that
structure. And let's delete the open
ai.txt
and click enter. By the way, I picked
this example also to illustrate to you
the difference between Co Work and just
like normal AI chatbot. Like if you're
just chatting with Claude on web UI, it
won't be able to modify stuff on your
actual computer. Cool, so we see that it
has assigned a task to itself
and it's making progress. While it's
doing that, I also want to show you
another workflow. So, let's click on new
task again. And at this time, I'm going
to be pointing Co Work to a different
folder. One with my credit card
statements. Wow, you're getting to know
me so well this video. So, here is 24
months of my credit card statement. I
will allow it and I will ask it, "Please
analyze my credit card statements and
create an interactive dashboard that
illustrates my spendings and also
surface insights and suggestions." I'm
going to pick the Opus model cuz this is
like low-key kind of important and I
shall click
proceed.
Now let's go back to my files and
folders. Look at that, it is done.
Here's the results. Okay, so it said
deletion failed file system permission.
Okay, got to delete it manually. Okay,
that's fine. And the credit card.zip is
still sitting loosely at the root level.
Want me to move it to a credit card
folder. Yes, move it to credit card
folder.
It says done.
And here it is. Wow, look. It is so
organized now. Has my open AI text.txt.
So let's actually delete that now.
Goodbye. Deleted. Great. Now let's go
back and look at the spending and
dashboard stuff. Okay, so it says it has
found 24 mix CSV exports spanning 2024
to 2026.
>> [music]
>> Before I dive in, a few decisions to
build the right thing. So what format do
you want? So HTML artifact sounds good.
How should I treat business versus
personal spendings? So flag lonely
octopus the business and personal
charges separately. Let's do that. And
what insights matter most? So I guess it
would be recurring subscriptions,
spending trends over time. Actually,
yeah, I guess they're all important.
Let's do that. You can see that Opus is
a lot slower, but it's also a lot more
meticulous. It gave me a plan and I said
sounds good, let's build it. Great, it
built us this little dashboard. How
nice. So we can look at it over here,
but actually I'm going to just open this
using Google Chrome. Okay. So it has my
total spendings and
monthly
business, personal, fees and interests,
etc. etc. So insights. Oh my goodness,
fees and interests. That's really bad.
That is really bad. I'm being so
vulnerable with you guys. Okay. So
active business subscriptions is over
$4,000. That's a lot of money. Okay,
anyways. So there's a bunch of stuff
that's here and you can track it. Um top
categories and I can also see the top 25
merchants, and maybe I want to get rid
of some of these, etc., etc., etc. You
get the point. By the way, you also can
just do this using the chatbot
functionality directly, because that
only allows you to upload 20 documents
at a time. Here's 24, and the dashboard
is actually local. You can see it right
over here. I feel like we're pretty
warmed up now, so let's actually go to
level two.
Okay, okay, this is okay, but, you know,
it's not really in like my vibe. The
color scheme is not really my vibe, and
I actually wanted it to be consistent
with the branding I usually use. So, I'm
going to add another folder that
contains my brand assets. By the way, by
brand assets, I literally mean just like
screenshots I took of the Lonely Artist
logo, and like some parts of the website
and stuff. Then, I'm going to say,
"Based on the brand assets,
create for me a brand book that I can
use to guide future
visual things."
Enter.
So, what format should the brand book be
in? So, we'll do PDF as recommended.
Brand scope, Lonely Octopus only, so it
knows that I have like a personal
branding as well, but we're just going
to go with the Lonely Octopus branding.
How comprehensive? Comprehensive, yes.
Now, let's actually look at this
dashboard now. And there you go, look at
that. It looks so much better. This
color scheme is much better. It looks
like my brand book. Nice. So, I'm
probably going to be using this brand
book and applying it to things all the
time. So, I'm actually going to change
this into what Cohere calls a skill.
Make applying the brand book onto visual
things we build a skill. Let's go
through this first, and I'll explain a
little bit more about what I mean by
skill. So, the scope of the skill is
going to be generic brand applier, so I
want it to actually just apply to
everything that I build. And where
should the skill live? I'm going to have
it as a local setup for now, but it's
actually something you can share with
other people as well, so they could also
be able to have the brand book and then
apply this color scheme and fonts and
stuff to whatever it is that they're
building as well. But, we'll keep it
local for now.
>> What output should the skill cover?
>> I'm going to cover all of it. Let's say
I like this color scheme. And there you
go. Here is a reusable set of
instructions that Co-worker now knows
how to apply this brand book into any
visual thing that we're creating. So,
this here is the skill and you can see
it has a text file that basically
explains how it is that you should be
applying this brand book. And to invoke
it in the future, you can just type
apply
brand
to whatever it is that you want to apply
it to. For example, I've applied it to
some open claw prompts and you can see
that it has all the branding now. It's
how pretty. And here for the inbox
triage dashboard that I have.
Congratulations, you just created a
skill that you can apply anywhere. You
can probably see how powerful this is as
you keep using Co-worker and building up
your own collection of skills. And you
can use other people's skills, too. If
you click on customize and it clicks
skills and click the plus icon, you can
actually see that there are other skills
that people have built that you can use
yourself like canvas design for creating
beautiful visual art, doc authoring for
co-authoring documentation, eternal
comms for eternal communications, etc.
So, I'm going to put on screen as some
of my favorite skills, those that I
created and from other people. Take a
screenshot so you can try them out
later, too. Now, kind of related to
skills, we also have what are called
connectors. Connectors is another way
for Cloud Co-worker to be able to do
more things. Specifically, it allows you
to connect to third-party software. Like
the most popular ones like Gmail, Google
Drive, Google Calendar, Microsoft 365,
and so much more. Like there is so much
that's here. Pretty much whatever
third-party software you want to connect
it to, it's probably going to be here.
And if it's not, you can also connect it
yourself using what is called MCP. I'm
not going to go into too much more
detail about this here, but I made an
entire video about MCP so you can check
it out over here if you would like. An
example of a workflow that uses a
connector is this inbox triage that gets
all of my emails and then categorizes
them into what I should be doing and
what is just noise. You can see that
under connectors, there is Gmail that's
linked. I'm going to put on screen now
some of my favorite connectors and how I
use them in my workflows. And finally,
there are plugins. Plugins is a
combination of skills and connectors to
serve a specific kind of task. There's a
bunch of these as well over here. For
example, this finance one that is built
by Anthropic themselves and allows for
streamlined financing workflows. You can
see that some of the skills that it
contains is auto support, close
management, financial statements, etc.
And here are the connectors that it
contains like Snowflake, Databricks,
BigQuery, Slack, Gmail, etc. So, I've
already installed this and the way that
you can use this is pointed to a folder
that has statements like the AMEX credit
card statements for example, type
and under [music] finance you
can see there's financial statements.
So, you can do  financial
statements, generate a statement for me
for example. And here is a financial
statement for October 2025 financials.
So, it has the read me and it has P&L,
uh transaction details, smart receipts,
etc. For anybody that's running a
business, this is a a game changer.
Trust me. I'm also going to put on
screen now some of my favorite plugins
and how I use them. So, we just got a
new office. This is the new office
space. As you can see, we have already
made it super messy. Hey Jovi.
>> Hello.
>> Yes.
>> [laughter]
>> I took some of the photos of this place
and gave them to Manas, the world's
first general AI agent that delivers
real results. I described a budget of
less than $500. Explained that I wanted
kind of like a light academia vibe and
off I go. It says that the office space
has really great lighting from the big
windows. And it gave some inspo pics
filled with light and some really cozy
feelings, which I really liked. So, I
said, yes, actually generate your
recommended decor for our actual office
space. I also love that it's interactive
and you can play around with it to get
it to your liking. And here are the
results. I loved it. The lamp, the
carpet. I especially love these white
flowy curtains that I recommended and it
actually gave links to products that
were under our budget. We ended up
spending less than $200. What would have
taken days took us only 20 minutes and
here is the finished result. It looks so
good. The curtains and the pictures, the
carpet, the lamp, but it's still so
messy though. You can try out Manas for
free at this thing over here, also
linked in description. Thank you so much
Manas for sponsoring this portion of the
video. Now, back to the video. Great.
There's now one more feature I want to
introduce you to on Cowerk before I can
say that congratulations, you could
consider yourself intermediate at Cloud
Cowerk. And that is a de-scheduled tab.
You see a lot of tasks in life are
reoccurring. Like you got to wake up
every morning, eat, go to work, check
your emails, sleep, etc. So that is why
scheduling task can be a massive unlock.
Now to do this, we could type schedule
every morning at 7:00 a.m. give me a
brief of my day based upon my calendar
and a short brief of any emails I should
be aware of and a send it to my Apple
notes. Click enter and it says done. Now
to activate this, you go to scheduled,
click that task and then click run now.
We're going to be doing a trial run. Pop
quiz. What skills and connectors are
being used in order to do this run? Put
it in the description. [music] See if
you're paying attention. And this is
what it looks like on my Apple notes and
I get these every single day. By the
way, I like using Apple notes um because
I can also look at it directly on my
phone when I wake up. Amazing. Now I
want to go on to the next section that
takes you from intermediate to advanced
Cowerk user. And seriously, this is
going to unlock even more than this.
Like if you think this is impressive
what you just did, like no. Wait for it.
It is going to get very magical because
I'm going to introduce you now to
projects.
Projects are persistent self-contained
workspaces in Cowerk that basically wrap
a folder with its own instructions,
memory file and connections. So Cowerk
basically remembers all the contacts
across all different sessions related to
that project. It enables you to do a
much much more complex things. For
example, I have a parent folder here
called Cwirk Playground. And within it,
I have these four projects that pretty
much span the entirety of my personal
and professional life. Under Lonely
Octopus, Cwirk is helping me create
curriculums, resources, and tracking our
bootcamp students. Under Content, it's
research and content ideas for me. Under
Personal, solving my personal problems.
And under Investments, there's workflows
that have to do with my investments.
This is what a project folder looks
like. So, first of all, this is what the
files of the investment projects looks
like. And corresponding to that on
Cwirk, you can click Projects,
Investment, and this is what it looks
like. There is a lot going on over here.
Don't panic. I'm actually going to show
you how to set up your own project.
First thing you want to do is create a
folder. Let's call it vacant new folder
and just call it stock portfolio.
Then we're going to go on Cwirk and
click Projects and New Project. And
we're going to use an existing folder.
Choose the folder, stock portfolio,
open. And under instructions, I'm going
to write, "You are my financial analyst
and advisor. Be very thorough
and double-check
numbers.
Push back on me when there are things
that do not match my
investment
philosophy.
Be direct." Then we're going to click
Create. Amazing! Wow. Okay, you just
created a project. Now, before I do
anything else, whenever I start a
project, I use what is called the
Productivity plugin. So, if you
remember, go to Customize over here,
Personal Plugins, Browse Plugins, and
you can install the Productivity plugin.
So, technically, the Productivity plugin
is supposed to help you manage tasks,
plan your day, and build up memory of
important context about your work, etc.
So, it's about your productivity, right?
So, you may be asking Tina, like, why
are you installing a productivity plugin
for a project? Well, let me just show
you. So, I'm going to do the plugin and
I'm going to initiate with start. And
you can see that it has created task.md
and its dashboard and a directory. And
it asked me some other questions as
well. Okay, so even though I'm not
really like managing tasks and things
like that, the reason I always do this
is because it sets up a memory system.
So, the next thing I'm going to do here
is I'm going to drop in a screenshot
with a bunch of my stock positions. And
I'm going to write, "Here are my
investments."
Not financial advice, okay? Just
literally showing you how to do this.
And it says, "Let me write all of this
to memory and claw.md now." So, this is
the power of the memory plugin. It's
actually going to remember all of this
and then also note it down for you. So,
I don't want to go into too much detail
about how the agents is saving memory,
but basically like having this memory
system will allow you to have more
control in updating the agents memory
and being able to see what's in the
agents memory much more easily just by
opening different markdown files. You
may have seen other tutorials that tell
you that you need to maintain like
claw.md or like memory.md files
yourself. You could do that, that's
totally fine, but this plugin, this
productivity plugin basically does that
for you and it's a lot more
sophisticated than whatever it is that
you probably figure out yourself cuz
Anthropic built this plugin and they're
probably better than you, no offense.
So, don't reinvent the wheel, right? You
can see the files that it created over
here.
Um for example, if you click into memory
and you open this file, it shows you a
lot of different portfolio positions
that are here. So, it maintains claw.md
and the memory.md as well. So, sets up
the entire system for you. Great. And
every time that you do something new,
all you have to do is type /update
and it would automatically fill in any
of the gaps in memory that it has for
you. Nifty, right? Okay, let's actually
just go and build something. So, let's
go to projects, stock portfolio, and we
could do something like schedule at 7:00
a.m.
across the world. So, my actual
investment philosophy is a lot more
thorough than this, but I'm not going to
go into way too much detail right now.
Let's just go with this for now. Click
yes to schedule.
And great. If we look at the scheduled
daily portfolio digest, and then we can
click run now. Then you can get
something looks like this. TLDR will
move your book. This is check action
items. Cool, right? And then there you
go. You can pretty much just build
whatever you want now with all of the
other features that we covered earlier.
All those connectors, skills, etc., etc.
Pretty much build to your heart's
content. For example, we can create what
I like to call a mission control
dashboard for your investments that
looks like this. It contains my
investments, tracks my daily digest,
researches new opportunities for me, and
always makes sure that it's in line with
my investment philosophy. It's kind of
like the mission control, so I can see
everything I want to see about my
investments. I have one of these
dashboards for most of my other projects
as well, cuz I like seeing things. So, I
am not going to recreate the entire
dashboard right now, um because that's
going to take a long time, plus my
sweet, sweet tokens. But, do not worry.
I am actually going to put a prompt in
the description if you want to create a
dashboard that's similar to this for
your investments, if you like. Wow,
there you have it. Now that you've
unlocked projects, you've pretty much
unlocked the ability of building
whatever it is that you want using Coda.
It is so powerful.
Please let me know what it is that you
want to be building. And I'm also going
to put on screen now some of my projects
and some projects that I want to be
building um using Coda myself, so in
case you want some extra ideas. At this
point, you are now an advanced user of
Coda Coda, but before I end this video,
I do want to address one more add-on
that That literally make you like top
like I don't know, like 0.1% of Cohere
users. And that is if you use Cohere in
combination with Claude Code. Okay. So,
yes, you do need to know a bit about how
to code. I have a video over here if
you're interested in learning. But, let
me explain why this is so powerful. You
see, with Claude Code, you can build out
all these workflows. You can even build
out these dashboards. I just showed you
like the Mission Control dashboard. And
a lot of other things, too. However, if
you're really into building things,
eventually your projects are going to
get bigger and bigger and more complex.
And as amazing as Cohere is, it is not
specialized as a AI coding agent. And
that is Claude Code, where you're going
to be able to unlock a lot more features
specific for coding. And in general, you
will also see that the coding ability is
going to be better than Cohere. So, how
do you do this, you may ask? Well,
Anthropic actually makes this really,
really easy to do. All you have to do is
switch over to the code tab of Claude on
this hub. Change your working directory
to the directory that you want to be
working in, like investments, for
example. And you can write something
like add on to my mission control
dashboard a new tab that lets me create
technical trading bots. Enter. Trust
workspace, and you can start doing that.
I'm not going to go into a full tutorial
about how to use Claude Code, because
that's like literally an entire other
video, and this video is extremely long
already. But, now, let me know in the
comments if you want me to do that.
Maybe I will
do an entire video about AI coding. I'm
going to put on screen out some other
examples of things that you can build
using this Cohere plus Claude Code
combination. Maybe you can try them out.
All right. Okay, we are at the end of
this video now. We have covered a lot.
Oh my goodness. Thank you so much into
watching the end of this video, and I
really hope this was a helpful video for
you to do stuff with Cohere, because I
think it's amazing. Thank you so much.
Happy Cohere-king. And I will see you
guys in the next video or live stream.